// This is a ppgen source file.

// Title      : American Slavery, and the Means of its Abolition
// Author     : Ward, Jonathan
// Project ID : 6265c95655d50

.dt American Slavery, and the Means of its Abolition, by Ward, Jonathan—A Project Gutenberg eBook


-----File: 001.png---------------------------------------------------------




/*
AMERICAN SLAVERY,

AND THE

MEANS OF ITS ABOLITION.


BY REV. JONATHAN WARD.


PUBLISHED BY REQUEST.


BOSTON:
PRINTED BY PERKINS & MARVIN.
1840.
*/
-----File: 002.png---------------------------------------------------------


The substance of the following Essay was delivered, in the form
of an Address, at Plymouth, N. H., May 5th, 1840; and is now
published by the particular request of those who heard it.
-----File: 003.png---------------------------------------------------------




AMERICAN SLAVERY, &c.




INTRODUCTION.


More than forty years ago the writer of the following
pages read Wilberforce's publications on the slave trade,
in which were described the various methods of procuring
the slaves in Africa, the horrors of the "middle passage,"
and their cruel treatment in the West Indies. In perusing
these statements of that great philanthropist and friend of
the injured African race, his feelings became, in some
measure, enlisted in favor of the colored people of our
land, and in opposition to the slavery upheld by our
nation.

He was never sensible of feeling the prejudice against
color, so often manifested; but, in his intercourse with
colored persons, treated them, as he would others. And
having them for many years as neighbors, and, not unfrequently,
as hired help, they were admitted to eat with
the family at the same table.

In 1824 he was invited to attend a political celebration
on the 4th of July. In declining the invitation, he noticed
the inconsistency of our conduct in celebrating our liberty,
founded upon the principle that all men are created free
and equal, and proclaiming this "self-evident truth," and
yet holding hundreds of thousands of our fellow men in
degrading bondage.

The next year, he was requested to preach on the 4th
of July. The sermon was, by request, printed. The
following extract will show the writer's views respecting
American slavery. "Our conduct in relation to the
Africans has been most inconsistent, absurd, and criminal.
While earnestly contending for the principle, that all men
ought to be free and equal, and risking every thing in
-----File: 004.png---------------------------------------------------------
opposing the claims of Great Britain to <i>tax us</i>, we were,
at the same time, holding in abject slavery hundreds of
thousands of our fellow beings, who, upon our own principles,
had an equal right with ourselves to enjoy the
sweets of liberty. How great guilt then has been contracted
by enslaving, and holding in bondage, and maltreating
the poor negroes. And what efforts ought to be
made for their intellectual, moral and religious improvement,
and their emancipation, and their enjoyment of the
rights of freemen."

Such being the feelings of the writer, he rejoiced to
see attention turned to the subject of slavery, and combined
efforts making for its removal. And, though he
deeply regretted the harshness and severity with which
opposers of abolition movements, and even those who did
not engage in them, were treated, yet he was willing to
countenance the cause of abolition, hoping that this, in
his view, very exceptionable manner, would be gradually
corrected. But, as it respects many of the Abolitionists,
he is sorry to say, his hopes have been disappointed.

Being, therefore, fully persuaded that the course alluded
to is injuring the cause both of religion and abolition, he
ventures to point out what he believes the word of God
teaches to be "a more excellent way." And he will
endeavor to do it kindly, and not needlessly to wound
the feelings of any, hoping to be guided by that wisdom
which is from above, and "is profitable to direct," and
which "is pure, and peaceable, and gentle, and is without
partiality, and without hypocrisy," and to present the
subject as it will appear in the light of the great day.
And he requests the reader impartially to weigh what is
offered in "the balances of the sanctuary," and to regard
it so far only as it corresponds with the teachings of the
divine oracles.


THE CHARACTER OF AMERICAN SLAVERY.

The subject of American slavery, if rightly considered,
must be to every Christian, and every true patriot, a
deeply interesting and painful subject. That our country--which
solemnly declared before God and the world, that
-----File: 005.png---------------------------------------------------------
it is "self-evident" that "all men are created equal, and
are endowed with certain inalienable rights, as life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness," and which claims to be the
freest on earth, and the asylum of the oppressed--should,
nevertheless, hold in abject bondage millions of its own
people, is a deep stain on our national character. The
holding of these unoffending fellow beings under the rod
of oppression is a great political and moral evil. It is a
flagrant violation of our professed principles of equal
rights, and manifestly inconsistent with the principles of
our holy religion. No one would be willing to be a slave
himself, and, therefore, if he loved others as himself, or
was willing to do to others as he would have others do to
him, he could not hold others in involuntary slavery.

Slaves are held as <i>property</i>, at the disposal of their
master, and possess, strictly speaking, no legal rights,
civil or religious, and, if ever so much abused, can seek
no redress in any court of justice. They are in a great
measure kept without the means of intellectual, moral
and spiritual improvement. And by sale and the removal
of the purchased slaves to a distant part of the country,
the most endearing ties are liable continually to be severed,
and the nearest relatives, husbands and wives, parents and
children, and brothers and sisters, to be torn from each
other, and for ever separated.

But the greatest of the evils of American slavery is the
depriving of its victims of the Bible and of the means of
religion. Some slaves do indeed attend public worship,
and receive oral instruction. Some masters also impart
to their slaves religious instruction. And a few are able
to read. But, if I am rightly informed, teaching them to
read is penal in all the slave States, except Kentucky,
and those who do it are liable to punishment by fine or
imprisonment, or both. Consequently, they are effectually
prevented from reading "the Holy Scriptures, which are
able to make them wise unto salvation through faith
which is in Christ Jesus." And many, according to the
testimony of the Synod of South Carolina and Georgia,
"are in the condition of heathen."

And though not much, comparatively, seems to be now
said on this subject by many advocates for emancipation,
yet, what is the political bondage, and all the other evils
-----File: 006.png---------------------------------------------------------
of slavery, compared with this? What is all the temporal
happiness, which can be enjoyed, compared with the
salvation of the soul, or eternal blessedness? And are
all the deprivations and misery, which can be endured in
this short life, comparable with eternal misery? "The
sufferings of this present time," however great, "are not
worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be
revealed" in saints, or with that "everlasting punishment"
which will be the portion of those who are "lost".

Those means, therefore, which are necessary to secure
the salvation of the soul, ought to be esteemed more
highly, and sought with far more earnestness for ourselves
and others, than any mere temporal privileges, advantages
and blessings; and to deprive the slaves of these means
of salvation is the worst feature in the slave system, and
incurs the deepest guilt. And when such is the system,
it requires no arguments to prove, that it ought to be
immediately abolished.

Indeed many at the South have most explicitly condemned
slavery, and urged the necessity of its abolition.
Mr. Jefferson, speaking of slavery, said, "It destroys the
morals of one part of the nation, and the <i>amor patria</i>
(love of country) of the other. With the morals of the
people, their industry is also destroyed. And can the
liberties of a nation be secure, when we have removed
their only basis--a conviction in the minds of the people,
that these liberties are the gift of God? that they are not
to be violated but with his wrath? Indeed I tremble for
my country, when I reflect that God is just; that his
justice cannot sleep for ever. The Almighty has no
attribute which can take sides with us in such a contest;"
i. e. with the slaves. Patrick Henry said, "It is as
repugnant to humanity, as it is inconsistent with the
Bible, and destructive to liberty." William Pinckney of
Maryland said, "Its continuance is as shameful as its
origin."

In 1818, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church <i>unanimously</i> adopted a report on slavery, in which
they say, "We consider the voluntary enslaving of one
part of the human race by another, as a gross violation
of the most precious and sacred rights of human nature;
as utterly inconsistent with the law of God, which requires
-----File: 007.png---------------------------------------------------------
us to love our neighbor as ourselves; and as totally
irreconcilable with the spirit and principles of the gospel,
which enjoins, that all things whatsoever we would that
men should do to us, we should do even so to them.
Slavery creates a paradox in the moral system; it exhibits
rational, accountable and immortal beings in such circumstances,
as scarcely to leave them the power of moral
action. It exhibits them as dependent on the will of
others, whether they shall receive religious instruction;
whether they shall enjoy the ordinances of the gospel;
whether they shall perform the duties and cherish the
endearments of husbands and wives, parents and children,
neighbors and friends; whether they shall preserve their
chastity and purity, or regard the dictates of justice and
humanity.

"Such are some of the consequences of slavery--consequences
not imaginary, but which connect themselves
with its very existence."

And they say further, "It is manifestly the duty of all
Christians, who enjoy the light of the present day--when
the inconsistency of slavery, both with the dictates of
humanity and religion, has been demonstrated, and is
generally seen and acknowledged--to use their honest,
earnest and unwearied endeavors, as speedily as possible,
to efface this blot on our holy religion, and to obtain the
complete abolition of slavery throughout Christendom, and,
if possible, throughout the world."

Freedom is the right of the slave. And it is the duty
of the master to grant it, and to grant it immediately.

And, that emancipation is safe, and would be for the
interest of slaveholders, might be easily shown, and is
clearly proved by the result of the experiment in the
West Indies. Free labor is manifestly more profitable
than slave labor. The African race possess kind, and
generous and grateful feelings; and if treated with
humanity and kindness, would labor much more faithfully
as freemen for wages, than as slaves under the cruel
stimulus of the whip. And if emancipated, there would
be no fear of insurrection, or of the slaughter of the
whites. And the States, now feeling the withering influence
of slavery, would be much better cultivated and
far more prosperous.
-----File: 008.png---------------------------------------------------------

Though the result of the emancipation in the British
West India Islands has been, by some writers and papers,
represented as unfavorable, yet, according to the most
authentic accounts, it has been successful. And when
difficulties have occurred, as has sometimes been the case,
they have been owing to the stupidity, or ill conduct of
the planters.

The Rev. John Scoble of London--who had spent
the greater part of the last three years in the British
West Indies, as an agent of the British Anti-Slavery
Society--at a meeting held in Boston, August 22, 1839,
gave a most interesting exposition of the results of the
emancipation of the slaves in these colonies, in answer
to questions proposed to him. A few extracts from his
statements will be given, taken from the Essex Register.

"From all which he had heard and seen, he was
satisfied the experiment of <i>complete emancipation</i> had
worked well for the owners of the estates; and the
prosperity of the colonies would be greatly increased by
it. Landed property, he said, had increased in value
in Barbadoes from 25 to 40 per cent. in some districts--and
generally in the colonies, from 5 to 25 per cent."

"There had," he said, "been a great improvement in
the domestic condition of the laborers--they enjoyed more
comforts--their huts, or rather <i>hovels</i>, which they formerly
occupied, were giving place to more comfortable habitations--they
were not willing to wear the poor and cheap
clothes which their masters formerly furnished for them--many
of the women, instead of toiling in the fields, were
now devoted to household duties; and many children,
who formerly had been compelled to work in the fields,
were now sent to school.

"Enquiries were made of Mr. Scoble, as to the willingness
of the blacks to labor for fair wages--as to the state
of morals and religion among them--how the aged and
infirm poor were supported among them, &c.; to all
which Mr. S. gave the most satisfactory answers. In
regard to the state of <i>morals</i>, he said, crime had decreased
since the emancipation--and he stated many interesting
facts in regard to the number of persons confined in
prisons in several colonies at his visits in 1836, compared
with the number in 1838. The number is now <i>only about</i>
-----File: 009.png---------------------------------------------------------
<i>half as large</i> as in former years, and most of the offences
of the negroes were misdemeanors, petty thefts," &c.

Similar testimony is furnished in a letter, published in
the New York Journal of Commerce, from Mr. Gurney,
an English Quaker gentleman, who has lately visited some
of the Windward Islands.

He says, "Landed property <i>has risen, and is still
rising in value</i>--being decidedly of greater value now
than it was six years ago. In Antigua it seems to be a
clear point, that the property <i>without</i> the slaves, is now
of equal value with the property <i>and</i> the slaves, six years
ago, or before emancipation.

"A similar remark applies with still greater force to
St. Kitts. R. Claxton, the Solicitor General there, told
me that he would not take £6,000 now for a property
which cost him only £2,000 six years ago. Indeed, many
planters spoke of what they receive in the shape of compensation,
as quite a gratuity.

"The unfavorable reports which have been spread of
the working of freedom, have generally arisen from persons
who are anxious to lay hold of landed property at a cheap
rate. A clear proof that all is doing well, is unintentionally
given by a gentleman in Antigua, who cries down the
system, as having ruined the West Indies, while he strives
to purchase all the landed property he can.

"The <i>comforts</i> of the negroes are immensely increased.
They are providing themselves with good food and clothing.
The evidence of this fact is abundant in every island
which we visited. No proof of it can be stronger than
the almost doubling of the imports within the last two
years. On the whole there cannot be the shadow of doubt
that the substantial property of the colonies which we
visited is on the increase."


MEANS FOR ABOLISHING SLAVERY.

I shall now inquire how slavery may be abolished in
our land. This is the most difficult part of the subject;
and on which I imagine there is, in reality, a great
diversity of opinion, even among abolitionists.

There are three ways, and three only, in which it is
-----File: 010.png---------------------------------------------------------
contemplated that it can be removed; by insurrection--the
action of Congress--or the action of the slave States.
Probably all would deprecate an attempt on the part of
the slaves to obtain their liberty by insurrection. This,
if ultimately successful, would be attended with much
bloodshed and misery, and a vast loss of life, both of the
colored people and of the whites.

Some suppose, that Congress have power to abolish
slavery in the slave States. They have undoubtedly
power to abolish it in the District of Columbia, and
in the Territories. And the constitution might be so
amended as to give Congress power to abolish slavery
within the States where it exists. But, as it now stands,
it appears to me that it does not give Congress any such
power. Whatever may be said, and though the constitution
does not name slaves or slavery, it manifestly
sanctions it.

Among other provisions, that respecting representation
in Congress is conclusive, where "<i>three-fifths of all other
persons</i>," besides citizens--who are to be reckoned in
apportioning the number of representatives--can only
mean slaves. And when the constitution went into
operation, while the framers were alive and among the
leading politicians of the day, the representatives were
chosen in this proportion in the slave States; and have
always continued to be thus chosen.

And Congress were forbidden by the constitution to
prohibit the foreign <i>slave trade</i> within twenty years. And
when these twenty years were expired, Congress immediately
passed laws to put a stop to this trade. But,
how absurd to suppose that the constitution forbid Congress
to abolish the <i>slave trade</i> within twenty years, and
yet, gave that body power to abolish <i>slavery itself</i> immediately!

But it is pleaded, that this power is given to Congress
in the fifth article of the amendments, where it is said,
"No person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property
without due process of law." And does this refer to
slaves? Manifestly not. Can persons be <i>deprived</i> of
that which they do not possess? To deprive a person
of something, implies that he <i>possessed</i> it. And do
slaves possess liberty, or property? And can they be
-----File: 011.png---------------------------------------------------------
deprived of property, when they have none? And would
an article have been adopted by Congress and the States,
so manifestly contrary to other parts of the constitution?
But it is said, that the most liberal construction ought to
be given to the clause in favor of liberty. True, when
there can be any reasonable doubt as to the real meaning
of a constitution or law. But where the meaning is
<i>plain</i>, there is no room for <i>construction</i>.

And when we have substantial and efficient weapons
enough, it is not good policy to seize those which are
feeble, and which may be wrested from us, and turned
against us.

But, if slavery must be abolished by the action of the
slave States, then it is an important question--How can
they be brought to put forth this action? This they will
not do till they are convinced that their duty, their
interest, or their safety, <i>or all these</i>, demand the emancipation
of their slaves. It is evident then, that <i>arguments</i>
must bring them to the adoption of this measure. These
may be addressed to their reason, their conscience, their
interest and their fears; and more especially, to the two
former.[A]

But by whom, and in what manner, must these arguments
be addressed to them? Are there those among
themselves, who will do this work, and labor effectually
to convince the people of the slaveholding States, that
they ought immediately to "break every yoke?"

As there is so much in those States from self-interest,
education, long cherished habits, and familiarity with
slavery, to lessen the evil in the public estimation, and
counteract the efforts and influence of those who might
desire its abolition, an external force from the free States
is necessary to bear upon this fearful evil. And that
this force may be powerful and effectual, it must be
<i>combined</i> and general. It must be a <i>united</i> testimony
against slavery.

[Footnote A: These were manifestly the views of those who formed the
American Anti-Slavery Society in 1833. For in the second article
of the constitution, they say of the Society, "It shall aim to
convince all our fellow citizens, by arguments addressed to their
understandings and consciences, that slavery is a heinous sin in the
sight of God," &c.]
-----File: 012.png---------------------------------------------------------

How then can this union in sentiment and action be
secured? Those who attempt to secure this object need
to be "wise as serpents, and harmless as doves." Meekness,
prudence and decision are all highly necessary.
The more difficult the object to be attained, the more
needful are wisdom, prudence and firmness. A fiery
zeal not tempered with meekness may do much injury,
by irritating those whom we would wish to gain, and
exciting in them prejudice, and thus repelling them
instead of gaining them. And there is great danger
of this.

Abolitionists have dwelt so much upon the horrors of
slavery, and seen the sufferings of the slaves, and the
cruelties inflicted upon them so often depicted in lively
colors, that their feelings have been deeply enlisted in
behalf of these degraded and suffering fellow beings. And
if others do not appear to feel for them as they do, they are
in dancer of indulging wrong feelings towards them, and
condemning them with great severity. And when their
sympathy is so strongly excited, they are liable to be
swayed entirely by it, and not duly to regard the sober
dictates of reason, or the precepts of the Bible.

Some seem to be so absorbed in this subject, as to
regard every other evil, and every other enterprise, of
comparatively small concernment; and appear to feel,
that, if this evil be removed from our land, the judgments
of Heaven must be averted, and we shall enjoy prosperity;
and that all ought, therefore, to be mainly concerned for the
removal of this one great evil. Hence some of this class,
who were professors of religion, appear to have lost, in a
great measure, their interest in the cause of Christ.
And I fear that many have, in this way, suffered in their
religious feelings.

Some have said, that abolitionism is Christianity, and
that abolitionists are Christians. But this is setting up a
standard of Christian character, manifestly not warranted
by the holy Scriptures, and is crying peace to many, to
whom God has said "there is no peace." Wicked men
do not become good men by becoming abolitionists. And
it must be dangerous to their immortal interests, and
provoking to God, to flatter them that, because they are
engaged in the abolition enterprise, they are Christians,
-----File: 013.png---------------------------------------------------------
or are doing God an acceptable service, while they are
in heart his enemies, and are in rebellion against him.
And yet, some professing Christians appear to have a
more cordial union with such, than with others who are
not united with them in this enterprise, though engaged
in other benevolent enterprises, and in the cause of Christ,
and appear to be devoted Christians. But is this right?
And will it meet the approbation of the God of heaven?
If they themselves neglect other benevolent enterprises,
should they not "cast the beam out of their own eye"
before they attempt to "pull the mote out of their
brother's eye?"

We should, as far as possible, estimate every <i>cause</i>, and
every <i>interest</i>, as <i>God</i> estimates them. And there are
other very great and crying sins in our land beside slave-*holding.
Sabbath breaking, neglect and contempt of
divine institutions and of the authority of God, disregard
of the divine oracles, infidelity, licentiousness, intemperance,
selfishness, supreme devotedness to the world,
and our treatment of the Indian tribes, are all crying sins
of our land. And should slavery be abolished, I should
have no hope that the judgments of Heaven would be
averted without a general reformation: this all ought
to endeavor to promote, and to set themselves against <i>all</i>
these evils, and to help remove them, so far as their influence
can reach.

All Christians should duly estimate, and engage in
the support of every benevolent enterprise. But some
zealous abolitionists take little interest in these enterprises,
and especially in the missionary cause; and not unfrequently
have articles and observations been published,
which were calculated to discredit it in the minds of the
community.

But is not the cause of missions far more important
than the cause of abolition in our land? What is
the emancipation of <i>three millions</i>, compared with the
civilization and christianizing of <sc>SIX HUNDRED MILLIONS</sc>,
multitudes of whom are equally or more degraded than
the slaves of the South?

Let Christian abolitionists, therefore, especially, feel
the importance of meeting <i>all</i> their responsibilities, as
they must answer it to God in the great day, and not
-----File: 014.png---------------------------------------------------------
withdraw their support from, or throw obstacles in the
way of any good cause, but afford it their cordial
countenance and coöperation. In this way they will
recommend their principles to others. And let them
cultivate deep piety and deep humility, and "in lowliness
of mind esteem others better than themselves." And
then they will not be so ready to condemn others with
severity, as has been a too common practice, and by
which the cause has been, I am fully persuaded, greatly
injured and retarded.

Denunciation, or heaping upon others opprobrious
epithets, or bringing against them charges which they
believe to be unjust, is not the way to convince or gain
them. No person of any consideration would treat a
friend thus, whom he considered in fault, and whom he
wished to convince and reclaim.

And are the public attacks, which are so often made
upon ministers and churches, calculated to subserve the
cause of religion or of abolition? And have those who
make them, seriously inquired, and satisfied their own
minds, that such charges will meet the approbation of
God? Though the churches are not so pure, nor the
ministers so devoted as they ought to be; yet it may be
doubted whether there are purer churches, or more
devoted ministers in any other country. In the time of
Isaiah, God's ancient church was doubtless less pure than
are our churches; and yet God said to her, "He that
toucheth you, toucheth the apple of mine eye"--and
"every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment
thou shalt condemn."

Some abolitionists have appeared disposed to condemn
all ministers and professing Christians, who did not act
with them, as "pro-slavery," and unworthy of confidence.
Though I have no doubt many abolitionists have disapproved
of such a course, yet I have seen little disapproval
of it expressed. Perhaps they thought it would
injure the cause to censure those who were engaged in
it, and would not be <i>expedient</i>. But that "wisdom,
which is without <i>partiality</i>," will lead us to condemn
what is wrong in <i>friends</i>, as well as others. Such an
impartial course is, I believe, the way to secure the
divine approbation and blessing. As I am a professed
-----File: 015.png---------------------------------------------------------
abolitionist,[A] and, as remarks have been made, and
resolutions passed at abolition meetings, which will apply
to ministers much better than myself, representing them
as unworthy of support, I cannot feel it to be right to
pass such things in silence. Whatever be their design,
they are calculated to destroy the influence of ministers,
and to <i>destroy souls</i>. For, let the impenitent hearers
of such ministers believe these representations, and their
preaching will do them no good. Probably when making
these remarks, and passing these resolutions, the authors
thought they were doing right; but perhaps on sober
reflection, and in their <i>closets</i>, away from excitement,
those who are Christians will feel differently, and be
convinced that a more conciliatory course would be
better. Hoping that this may be the effect, I here set
down a few of the things to which I have alluded.

The editor of "The Liberator" published the following
declaration:

/#
"Christianity indignantly rejects the sanctimonious pretensions
of the great mass of the clergy in this land. It is becoming more
and more apparent, that they are nothing better than hirelings, in
the bad sense of the term, that they are blind leaders of the blind,
spiritual popes, dumb dogs that cannot bark, that they love the
fleece better than the flock. Their overthrow is registered in the
scroll of destiny."
#/

At the meeting of the Grafton County Anti-Slavery
Society, holden at Littleton, N.H. January 29th and 30th,
1840, the following resolutions were passed, though not
without opposition:

/#
"<i>Resolved</i>, That the slave system of this country derives its chief
and essential support from the nominally free States; and that the
citizens of New Hampshire are as deeply implicated in the guilt
of slaveholding as those of any other State in the Union.

"<i>Resolved</i>, That the only way in which the citizens of New
Hampshire can exculpate themselves from the guilt of slaveholding,
is to countenance and support the Anti-slavery enterprise."
#/

Here it is asserted, that the citizens of New Hampshire
are as deeply implicated in the guilt of slaveholding as
those of any of the slave States; and that the <i>only way</i>
in which they can exculpate themselves from this guilt,
"is to countenance and support the Anti-slavery enter-*

[Footnote A: I am a member of the New Hampshire State Anti-Slavery Society.]
-----File: 016.png---------------------------------------------------------
*prise." As the guilt of all sin must be removed in the
same way--and this is said to be the only way to remove
this guilt--it would seem, that all who "countenance and
support the Anti-slavery enterprise" are exculpated from
the guilt of <i>all their sins</i>, as they cannot be exculpated
from the guilt of <i>one</i> sin, and not of <i>all</i> sin.

I presume that those who adopted this resolution did
not reflect, that it would lead to such a conclusion. They
probably thought, that the citizens of New Hampshire
could not give evidence of sincere repentance, unless
they should "countenance and support the Anti-slavery
enterprise." But if this is their <i>only way</i> to afford such
evidence, and to be exculpated from this guilt, do not all
who "countenance and support the Anti-slavery enterprise"
afford such evidence, and thus show that they are
exculpated from the guilt of this sin, and consequently,
from the guilt of <i>all</i> sin?

At the annual meeting of the Merrimack County Anti-Slavery
Society, January 14th, 1840, the following resolutions
were adopted:

/#
"<i>Resolved</i>, That the abolition enterprise is the cause of God, and
that those professed ministers of the gospel who treat it with opposition
or indifference, are recreant to their high trust as ambassadors
of Christ--hypocritical in their professions of love to man, and are
unworthy the confidence and support of a Christian community.

"<i>Resolved</i>, That all those who support professed ministers of
the gospel who refuse to wield their pulpit influence against the
diabolical system of American slavery, are guilty of supporting that
system."
#/

At a meeting of "a number of the friends of the slave,
from different parts of the State," at Concord, January
22d--the day after the meeting of the Convention of Congregational
and Presbyterian Ministers and Churches--the
following resolution, among others, was adopted:

/#
"<i>Resolved</i>, That at the present stage of the Anti-slavery enterprise,
those ministers professing to be the ministers of Christ, who
do not fearlessly and boldly advocate the immediate and unconditional
emancipation of the slaves of this country, are unworthy
the countenance or support of the Christian community."
#/

These and similar resolutions which have been passed
in other places, doubtless refer to all ministers who do
not openly join with abolitionists, and thus "countenance
and support the Anti-slavery enterprise."
-----File: 017.png---------------------------------------------------------

Are such attacks calculated to do ministers good, or
to promote the cause of Christ, or the cause of abolition?
Though we are commanded to "bless those that curse
us," yet even good men do not like to be reproached,
and will not be pleased with those who assail them with
opprobrious language. Especially, if instead of being
treated according to the direction of the Saviour in the
18th of Matthew they are <i>publicly assailed</i>, they will be
very liable to be irritated. And, if by such attacks any
cause them to sin, they will be guilty themselves. And,
if they duly considered what a dreadful thing even the
least sin is, as committed against an infinite and holy
God, they would dread to commit it themselves, or to lead
others into it.

Though David was a good man, the irritating language
and conduct of Nabal so provoked him, that, had it not
been for the prudent and mild conduct of Abigail, he
would have destroyed the whole family.

Rehoboam lost a great part of his kingdom by forsaking
the counsel of the old men who stood before Solomon his
father, who advised him to "speak good words to the
people," and following the counsel of the young men, and
"answering the people roughly."

Such conduct in abolitionists is inconsistent with their
own professed principles--with the spirit and precepts of
the gospel--with the counsel of wise and good men--and
with the teachings of experience.

The great principles upon which they rest their plea
for the slave, are--that we ought to love others as ourselves,
and do to others as we would have them do to us.
But would <i>they</i> be willing to have others thus publicly
assail <i>their</i> character. When thus assailed, they show
plainly that they would not. If, therefore, they loved
others as themselves, they could not do thus.

A man's <i>character</i> is dearer to him than <i>property</i>. "A
good name is rather to be chosen than great riches."

/*
----"Who steals my purse
Steals trash----
But he who filches from me my good name,
Robs me of that which not enriches him,
But makes me poor indeed."
*/

Should some persons injure the property, or cast filth upon
-----File: 018.png---------------------------------------------------------
the clothes of one who was the object of their dislike,
every one would condemn such conduct as becoming only
a mob. And yet it is a far greater injury to have the
character vilified and reproached.

Some justify such language from the denunciations of
the Saviour against the Scribes and Pharisees, and his
calling them hypocrites. But when any can, like the
Saviour, know the hearts of others, and know to whom to
apply such epithets, then they may use them. And they
may take the lash, and compel others to do what they
think they ought to do, and plead the example of Christ,
who, with a scourge, drove the buyers and sellers out of
the temple.

A good cause does not need such weapons to support
it, and will only be injured by their use. And when any
resort to them, they will be suspected of being conscious
of the weakness of their cause, or of being under the influence
of a wrong spirit. When a person is conscious
that he is strong in <i>argument</i>, he will feel no need of such
base weapons, and will not use them, if he is in the exercise
of a right spirit.[A] For it is contrary to the spirit of
the gospel, and to the instructions of the Bible. The
spirit of the gospel is a meek, kind, benevolent spirit, and
undissembled goodwill to all. And, if in full exercise, men
would love others as themselves; "and love worketh no
ill to his neighbor." But to pursue a course which directly
tends to injure the character, and to destroy the peace and
usefulness of a good man, is working the greatest evil to
him, and is contrary to the instructions of the Bible, and
the way there pointed out to convince and gain others:
"A soft tongue breaketh the bone." This we are here
taught will have the greatest effect. "A soft answer turneth
away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger." "The
servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle unto
all men; in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves;
if God peradventure will give them repentance to
the acknowledging of the truth." This is most explicit,

[Footnote A: Though we are commanded "earnestly to contend for the faith
once delivered to the saints," yet the unkind and censorious spirit,
and harsh language often displayed in theological disputes, has excited
great prejudice, and led many to condemn <i>all</i> religious controversy.]
-----File: 019.png---------------------------------------------------------
and teaches, that, if we would gain others, we must be
gentle towards <i>all</i> men without any exception, in meekness
instructing them. "Speak not evil one of another,
brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother, and judgeth
his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the
law," by practically condemning the law for prohibiting
such evil speaking.

"Whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in
danger of the council; but whosoever shall say, Thou
fool, shall be in danger of hell-fire." This is a most solemn
declaration. "Judge not, and ye shall not be
judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned."
"But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost
thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand
before the judgment-seat of Christ." "Let us not,
therefore, judge one another any more: but judge this
rather, that no man put a stumbling-block, or an occasion
to fall, in his brother's way;" which he would do by harshly
judging and condemning, and thus irritating him. "I
beseech you, that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith
ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with
long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring
to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace."
"Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamor, and
evil-speaking, be put away from you, with all malice:
And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving
one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven
you," "Put them in mind to speak evil of no man, to be
no brawlers, but gentle, showing <i>all meekness unto all
men</i>."

What a picture St. James gives of the terrible effects
of an unbridled tongue. And an unbridled <i>pen</i> is more
dangerous. "The tongue is an unruly evil, full of deadly
poison. The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity, and
setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on
fire of hell." "Wherefore, laying aside all malice, and all
guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings--be
pitiful, be courteous; not rendering evil for evil, or
railing for railing, but contrariwise, blessing." Jude says,
that even "Michael the archangel, when contending with
the devil, durst not bring against him a railing accusation,
but said, The Lord rebuke thee."
-----File: 020.png---------------------------------------------------------

It is therefore extremely manifest, that evil-speaking, or
assailing the character of brethren in the ministry, or in
the church, or even others--except by kind and faithful
reproof, for evident faults--is contrary to the instructions
of the word of God, and is wrong. The Bible allows us
to reprove others plainly for their sins, with meekness, and
in love, but not with harshness, or opprobrious language.

And this is agreeable to the counsel of the wisest and
best of men.

Mr. Adam, an eminently pious minister in England,
who died in 1784, in his "Thoughts on Religion," says,
"We should study only the good of others, let them do
what they will to us. If I aim at the real spiritual improvement
of those I converse with, I shall never say any
thing to irritate or vex them, but keep a constant guard
on myself. Speaking evil of others at all, unless it be to
prevent mischief to religion, or our neighbor, proceeds
from pride. Say all the good you can of all; but if you
would have ill spoken of any, turn that office to the devil."

Cudworth said, "<i>Truth</i> and <i>love</i> are two of the most
powerful things in the world, and when they both go
together, they cannot easily be withstood. The golden
beams of truth, and the silken cords of love twisted
together, will draw men on with a sweet violence, whether
they will or no."

"Certainly," says Bishop Hall, "God abides none but
charitable dissensions; those that are well grounded and
well governed; grounded upon just causes, and governed
with Christian charity and wise moderation; those whose
beginning is equity, and end is peace. If we must differ,
let these be the conditions; let every one of God's ministers
be ambitious of that praise which Gregory Nazianzen
gave to Athanasius; to be an adamant to them that strike
him, and a loadstone to them that dissent from him; the
one not to be moved with wrong, the other to draw those
hearts which disagree. So the fruit of righteousness
shall be sown in peace of them that make peace. So the
God of peace shall have glory, the church of God rest,
and our souls, unspeakable joy and consolation in the day
of the appearing of our Lord Jesus."

"It is," says a respectable writer, "impossible to entertain
sentiments of true friendship, towards those whom we
-----File: 021.png---------------------------------------------------------
are in the practice of maligning every day." Milner, in
his Church History, says, "Satire and invective are plants
of rapid growth in the malignant soil of human nature."

Rev. Mr. Jenkins, in his remarks on the Report submitted
to the Senate of the United States, on the petitions
presented to Congress, praying that the mails might not
be transmitted through the country on the Sabbath, says,
"They who are honestly concerned to preserve the sanctity
of the Sabbath, can cherish no other than sentiments
of heart-felt kindness towards the author of this report.
Their disagreement with him on a subject of such vital
and enduring interest, would prove it the offspring of some
of the very lowest principles which govern human conduct,
were it to lead them to return railing for railing."

Some attempt to justify harsh language from the example
of Luther. But besides the change in the times and
the style of controversy, it ought to be recollected that
Luther himself <i>condemned</i> what they adduce as a <i>justification</i>
for the use of such language. "In my books of a
polemical nature," said he, "I avow, that I have been
more violent and bitter than suits my religion and my
robe."

The distinguished Christian poet, Cowper, in a letter to
Rev. John Newton, said, "No man was ever scolded out
of his sins. The heart, corrupt as it is--and because it is
so--grows angry if it be not treated with some management
and good manners, and scolds again. A surly mastiff
will perhaps bear to be poked, though he will growl
even under that operation, but if you touch him roughly,
he will bite. There is no grace that the spirit of self can
counterfeit with more success than a religious zeal. A
man thinks he is fighting for Christ, and he is fighting for
his own notions. He thinks that he is skilfully searching
the hearts of others, when he is only gratifying the malignity
of his own; and charitably supposes his hearers destitute
of all grace, that he may shine the more in his own
eyes by the comparison. When he has performed this
notable task, he wonders that they are not convicted. He
has given it to them soundly, and if they do not tremble
and confess that God is in them of a truth, he gives them
up as reprobate, incorrigible, and lost forever. But the
man that loves me, if he sees me in an error, will pity me,
-----File: 022.png---------------------------------------------------------
and endeavor calmly to convince me of it, and persuade
me to forsake it. If he has great and good news to tell
me, he will not do it angrily and in much heat and discomposure
of spirit. It is not therefore easy to conceive on
what ground a minister can justify a conduct which only
proves that he does not understand his errand. The absurdity
of it would certainly strike him, if he were not
himself deluded."

Ministers undoubtedy[** undoubtedly] sometimes greatly injure their
usefulness by their harshness of expression, and the
want of a kind and conciliatory address. The abolition
enterprise is often said to be "the cause of God,"
and a "holy cause." If so, it ought surely to be defended
and sustained by "spiritual," and not "carnal
weapons." And some of the advocates of the cause
deeply feel this. William Ladd, the distinguished Advocate
of Peace, in a letter addressed some months since to
an Anti-slavery Meeting in Portsmouth, which he was
invited to attend, says, "If I were present among you, I
should say--let every thing be done in <sc>LOVE</sc>, not only to
the poor down-trodden slave, but to his oppressor, and to
the slaves of prejudice, 'forbearing threatening.' The
chains of the slave may be melted off by the fire of love,
but they cannot be severed by the sledge hammer of violence."

Many abolitionists, instead of manifesting the meek,
mild and forbearing spirit of Him who, "when he was
reviled reviled not again," have too often displayed the
spirit of party politicians. But even some of the politicians
of the day seem to be convinced of the impropriety
of treating opponents with rudeness. After
the close of a four weeks' session of the Legislature of
Rhode Island, in 1838, it was said, "Not an angry or
offensive personality has been uttered by any member."

At an editorial convention held last season at Columbus,
Ohio, the following resolutions were passed:

/#
<i>Resolved</i>, That in the opinion of this Convention, there is one
plain standard of editorial propriety from which no man ought to
depart, i. e. nothing should be esteemed justifiable in editorial intercourse,
which would be clearly condemned in the intercourse of
private gentlemen. And, therefore

<i>Resolved</i>, That in the opinion of this Convention, in all editorial
#/
-----File: 023.png---------------------------------------------------------
/#
discussions concerning politics and other subjects of public disputation,
all opprobrious epithets, offensive personal allusions, and harsh
attacks on private reputation, ought to be carefully avoided.
#/

These testimonies are surely amply sufficient to show
the impropriety of the course which I have disapproved,
in the estimation of respectable, and wise, and good men.
But I will add one more.

Said an eminent missionary among the heathen, "Until
a minister feels as our Saviour did on his last return to
Jerusalem, when he wept as he said, 'O that thou hadst
known,' &c., he is not in a fit state of mind to repeat a
single denunciation from his master's lips."

Is not this the spirit which we all need? And were
this spirit generally possessed by professing Christians, and
Christian ministers, how much of that "wrath of man
which worketh not the righteousness of God," and contention
and unchristian feeling, and attacks on each others'
reputation would be prevented; and how rapidly would
the cause of truth, of righteousness, and of benevolence
advance. The weapons of truth and love would then be
wielded with mighty power, and with astonishing success.

Even slaveholders would hardly be able to resist such
powerful weapons. Mr. Chester, editor of the Christian
Journal at New York, speaking of Rev. John Rankin, a
distinguished abolitionist, says, "He was born, educated,
and brought into the ministry in Tennessee, and has been
an abolitionist, I might perhaps say, from his birth. Twenty,
or twenty-five years ago he was a member of an Abolition
Society in that State. His abolition principles and feelings
never lead him to indulge in bitterness towards
slaveholders, or opponents of any kind. And such is his
kindness, such the deep tone of his feeling, that few slaveholders--though
often pressed with the most earnest appeals--have
ever parted with him but with increased respect."

Last year there was published an account of the visit
of a minister of the Quaker denomination to a slave-trader[** faint hyphen?]
in Virginia, given by the visiter himself, which strikingly
illustrates the influence of faithful, but kind remonstrance.
Being accompanied to his house by a friend, he says, "I
found he was considered, independent of his employment,
of a ferocious disposition. His countenance looked fierce.
I offered him my hand, feeling nothing in my heart but
-----File: 024.png---------------------------------------------------------
love towards him as a man. I endeavored in a tender,
feeling, but decided manner to open the subject that
brought me to his house, telling him I came in behalf of
the poor colored people. I requested him to pause for a
moment, and endeavor as much as possible to place his
own parents and nearest relatives in the very situation of
those poor slaves he had at times purchased and sold
again, thereby separating the nearest connections far from
each other. He appeared to hear me patiently, and tried
to justify his conduct, but with coolness and deliberation.
But in time he cast away all his weapons of defence. He
gave it as his opinion that before twenty years were passed
away, slavery would be brought to a final close, if the
work was rightly gone about. He assured us of his
determination to quit his business, and acknowledged the
gratitude he felt for the visit; and took his leave of us in
an affectionate manner." I have given only a very brief
sketch of this interesting visit, as published in the 'Herald
of Freedom.'

If this were the spirit generally displayed, and this the
course pursued even by professors of religion among
abolitionists, how long would it be before they would be
joined by the great mass of the people in the free States,
and by many in the slave States? But so much of a contrary
spirit has been manifested, and such a different
course pursued, that it has produced irritation, and excited
prejudice in the minds of very many who would otherwise
have cordially united in efforts for the removal of slavery.

It was stated in the 'Herald of Freedom,' that emancipation
was universally popular in New York in 1827. And
the same feeling, I presume, then pervaded New England
generally.

Though Wilberforce in his zealous, and untiring, and
finally successful efforts to abolish the slave-trade, manifested
the spirit which I have here recommended, yet
others who were engaged with him, manifested a different
spirit, and pursued a different course, which tended to
embarrass this great philanthropist, and to retard the progress
of the cause in which he was engaged.

"The contest," says his biographer, "in behalf of
abolition, was throughout conducted by Mr. Wilberforce
in a spirit of conciliation towards the supporters of the
-----File: 025.png---------------------------------------------------------
trade. Some amongst the West Indian body were his
personal friends, and of all 'we should not forget,' he
writes to Dr. Currie, 'that Christian candor is due to
those who carry it on. There may be, I doubt not,
amongst them, many men of enlarged and humane minds.
I trust that you have done me the justice to acquit me of
having adopted any such indiscriminate and false judgment
as that you oppose.'"

His prospect of speedy success seemed to be encouraging.
"The sympathy of the country was too much
aroused to be patient of delay. Public meetings, and
petitions numerously signed, multiplied both in England
and Scotland." But the levelling principles of the French
revolution began to spread and were favored by many
abolitionists, which excited great prejudice against their
cause. "You will see Clarkson," writes Mr. Wilberforce
to Lord Muncaster; "caution him against talking
of the French revolution, it will be ruin to our cause."
"Clarkson," writes Dr. Milner, "will tell you that he
had a long conversation with me. I wish him better
health, and better notions in politics; no government can
stand on such principles as he appeals to, and maintains.
I am very sorry for it, because I see plainly, advantage is
taken of such cases as his, in order to represent the
friends of abolition as levellers. This is not the only
intance[**instance?] where the converse of a proposition does not
hold; levellers certainly are friends of abolition.' Great
mischief had then already risen to the cause. 'What
business had your friend Clarkson,' asked Dundas 'to
attend the Crown and Anchor last Thursday? He could
not have done a more mischievous thing to the cause
you have taken in hand.'

"The seed which had been so freely scattered by
the revolutionary politics of some leading abolitionists
had sprung up into a plentiful harvest of suspicion.
'People connect,' writes Mr. Clark, 'democratical principles
with the abolition of the slave trade, and will not
hear it mentioned.'"

On this reverse, Mr. Wilberforce made the following
reflections, displaying a humility worthy the imitation of
every abolitionist, and of every Christian:--"Oh, may not
this have been because one so unworthy as I undertook
-----File: 026.png---------------------------------------------------------
this hallowed cause, (Uzzah and the ark,) and carried it
on with so little true humility, faith, self-abasement, and
confidence in God through Christ? No principles but
the principles of the gospel should be connected with the
abolition of slavery. And if we would expect the blessing
of God upon this enterprise, it must be conducted in the
spirit of his gospel, and in conformity to the precepts
of his word. And without his blessing we shall labor
in vain.[A]

And is a dependence on God's aid and blessing duly felt?
If thus felt, it will lead to the cultivation and exemplification
of a right spirit--the spirit not merely of humanity, or
sympathy, or party zeal, but of real vital piety, which will
seek supremely the glory of God, the honor and permanency
of his institutions, the advancement of his cause
in the world, and the disenthralment and salvation of
those around us, who are slaves to sin, and in bondage to
Satan; and the conversion of the benighted heathen,
as well as the emancipation and elevation of the slaves of
our own beloved country. And then the car of liberty,
and the chariot of the gospel will move on with majestic
and mighty power.

[Footnote A: Life of Wilberforce, pp. 112, 113, 111, 110, 126, 130.]
